The analysis is performed on the Canada Vehicle CO₂ Emissions dataset sourced from Kaggle.

1. Two models are implemented and compared:
i. Linear Regression
ii. Ridge Regression
The goal is to understand how vehicle characteristics influence emissions and to evaluate whether regularization improves model performance.

2. Dataset Description
Source: Kaggle – CO₂ Emission by Vehicles (Canada)
File Used: CO2 Emissions_Canada.csv
The dataset contains vehicle-level information such as: Engine size, Cylinders, Fuel consumption (city, highway, combined), Vehicle class, Fuel type, Manufacturer, CO₂ emissions (target variable)
The dataset includes categorical and numerical features, making it suitable for regression with feature encoding.

3. Environment & Tools
Platform: Kaggle Notebook
Language: Python

4. Libraries Used:
numpy – numerical operations
pandas – data handling
scikit-learn – modeling and evaluation
matplotlib – visualization

5. Data Preprocessing
Dataset Loading
The dataset is loaded directly from Kaggle’s input directory.
One-Hot Encoding
Categorical variables are encoded using pd.get_dummies():
Make, Vehicle Class, Fuel Type
drop_first=True is used to avoid multicollinearity.
Feature Selection
Dropped columns: Model, Transmission, Fuel consumption columns
Target column: (CO2 Emissions(g/km))
Remaining features are used as predictors (X).
Target Variable: CO2 Emissions(g/km) is selected as the target (y).

6. Train-Test Split
The dataset is split into: 70% Training data, 30% Testing data
train_test_split(test_size=0.3, random_state=67)
The fixed random state ensures reproducibility.

7. Models Implemented
i. Linear Regression
Assumes a linear relationship between features and CO₂ emissions.
Model is trained using ordinary least squares.
Evaluation metrics: R² Score, Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE)
ii. Ridge Regression
A regularized version of linear regression.
Adds a penalty term to reduce overfitting.
Regularization strength:alpha = 1.0
Uses the same evaluation metrics as linear regression.
Model Evaluation Metrics: 
R² Score: Measures how much variance in CO₂ emissions is explained by the model.
RMSE: Measures average prediction error in g/km.
Higher R² and lower RMSE indicate better model performance.

8.Visualizations
Two scatter plots are generated:
i. Linear Regression Plot
X-axis: Actual CO₂ emissions
Y-axis: Predicted CO₂ emissions
A diagonal reference line represents perfect prediction.

ii. Ridge Regression Plot
Same structure as linear regression plot.
Used to visually compare prediction spread and accuracy.

These plots help assess:
Prediction accuracy
Presence of bias
Spread of errors

9. Results & Observations
Linear regression provides a strong baseline for CO₂ prediction.
Ridge regression stabilizes predictions by reducing coefficient variance.
Both models show a strong correlation between actual and predicted emissions.
Ridge regression is particularly useful when dealing with many correlated features created by one-hot encoding.

10. How to Run the Code
Open a Kaggle Notebook
Add the CO₂ Emissions Canada dataset to the notebook
Copy and run the code cells sequentially
Observe printed evaluation metrics and generated plots
